CrowdStrike Falcon Deploy Guide (#31814)
fleetdm/fleet: articles/deploying-crowdstrike-with-fleet.md

`crowdstrike-system-extension` - An improvement on the classic macOS kernel extension, or kext, this validates the CrowdStrike Falcon extension in addition to preventing tampering and modification by your end users. The profile complements the other CrowdStrike configurations by ensuring users cannot disable or remove the network monitoring component through the macOS System Settings interface, maintaining continuous security protection on the device.

`crowdstrike-web-filter.mobileconfig` - This payload configures web filtering capabilities. It allows CrowdStrike to monitor network traffic at the socket level (FilterSockets is `true`) while not filtering individual packets (FilterPackets is `false`). A key component to comprehensive device protection, the filter is properly validated with Apple's security requirements and operates at the firewall level.

`crowdstrike-full-disk-access.mobileconfig` - This privacy preference payload grants full disk access to CrowdStrike Falcon. It uses the CrowdStrike Apple Developer team identifier to grant the Falcon application the necessary macOS entitlements for modifying Privacy controls.

> ### Installer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Upload the installer
```

Reviewer: Changing these to task-based headings, consistent with your previous heading for uploading config files.

> From your Falcon console, click **Host setup and management** > **Sensor Downloads**. Click **Download** for the appropriate OS and architecture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Falcon console, click **Host setup and management** > **Sensor Downloads**. 
2. Download the installer for the appropriate OS and architecture.
3. In Fleet, go to **Software > Add software > Custom package** to upload the installer
4. Select **Automatic install** or **Self-service** if those options apply to your environment.
```

Reviewer: Suggest changing the explanatory prose to step-by-step instructions.

> From the **Software** tab in Fleet, select **Add software** > **Custom package**. Upload the installer from the previous step. Select **Automatic install** or **Self-service** if those options apply to your environment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 
```

> >Working with different hardware architectures? Use labels to scope installs based on hardware.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>Use [labels](https://fleetdm.com/guides/managing-labels-in-fleet) to scope installs for different hardware architectures.
```

> ### Post-Install Script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Add a post-install script
```

> The **Customer ID** is used to assign hosts to your tenant and validate the CrowdStrike Falcon license using a script that calls the `falconctl` binary. Your Customer ID can be found on the Sensor download page. In Fleet, define the following post-install script for the CrwdStrike Falcon installer:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Customer ID** is used to assign hosts to your tenant and validate the CrowdStrike Falcon license using a script that calls the `falconctl` binary.

> Your Customer ID can be found on the Sensor download page.

In Fleet, define the following post-install script for the CrowdStrike Falcon installer:
```

Reviewer: Separated this out to make it more scannable.

```
#!/bin/bash
CUSTOMER_ID="YOUR-CUSTOMER-ID-HERE"
FALCON_PATH="/Applications/Falcon.app/Contents/Resources/falconctl"

sudo "$FALCON_PATH" license "$CUSTOMER_ID"

# Check status
if [ $? -eq 0 ]; then
    echo "Activation completed"
else
    echo "Activation failed"
    exit 1
fi
```

>If your org is using GitOps and you want to pass the site key as a secret, follow this guide: https://fleetdm.com/guides/secrets-in-scripts-and-configuration-profiles

> >For admins that are leveraging the macOS Setup Experience in Fleet, we recommend adding the software to the list of items installed on first boot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>For admins using the macOS Setup Experience in Fleet, we recommend adding the software to the list of items installed on first boot.
```

## Windows

CrowdStrike offers `.exe` and `.msi` Falcon installers for Windows. Using the `.msi` is preferred as this installer type performs a silent, fully-automated installation when using the **Automatic install** option in Fleet.

> ### Installer + script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Upload the installer
```

> After downloading the latest CrowdStrike Falcon `.msi` installer and retrieving your Customer ID from your admin console, navigate to the **Software** tab in Fleet, then select **Add software** > **Custom package**. Upload the installer from the previous step. Select **Automatic install** or **Self-service** if those options apply to your environment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Falcon console, click **Host setup and management** > **Sensor Downloads**. 
2. Download the installer for the appropriate OS and architecture.
3. In Fleet, go to **Software > Add software > Custom package** to upload the installer
4. Select **Automatic install** or **Self-service** if those options apply to your environment.

> Use [labels](https://fleetdm.com/guides/managing-labels-in-fleet) to scope installs for different hardware architectures.
```

Reviewer: Changed prose style instructions to step-by-step. I also assumed that this step is the same for Windows and macOS users.

> The CrowdStrike Falcon tenant needs to collect the Customer ID from the host at time of install which we can be done with an **Install Script**. Copy and paste the code snippet below in Fleet and populate the value of the `$FalconCid` variable with your Customer ID string:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Add a post install script

The **Customer ID** is used to assign hosts to your tenant and validate the CrowdStrike Falcon license using a script that calls the `falconctl` binary.

> Your Customer ID can be found on the Sensor download page.

In Fleet, define the following post-install script for the CrowdStrike Falcon installer, populating the value of the `$FalconCid` variable with your Customer ID string:
```

Reviewer: Made consistent with the macOS layout.

```
# Set your Customer ID here
$FalconCid = "YOUR-CUSTOMER-ID-HERE"

$logFile = "${env:TEMP}/fleet-install-software.log"
try {
$installProcess = Start-Process msiexec.exe `
  -ArgumentList "/quiet /norestart /lv ${logFile} /i `"${env:INSTALLER_PATH}`" CID=${FalconCid}" `
  -PassThru -Verb RunAs -Wait
Get-Content $logFile -Tail 500
Exit $installProcess.ExitCode
} catch {
  Write-Host "Error: $_"
  Exit 1
}
```

There are several other optional flags that can be added. Check the documentation for a list of supported options and their functionality.

## Linux

> As in previous steps, find the latest installer for your Linux distro and **Download**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Upload the installer

1. In the Falcon console, click **Host setup and management** > **Sensor Downloads**. 
2. Download the installer for the appropriate OS and architecture.
3. In Fleet, go to **Software > Add software > Custom package** to upload the installer
4. Select **Automatic install** or **Self-service** if those options apply to your environment.
> Use [labels](https://fleetdm.com/guides/managing-labels-in-fleet) to scope installs for different hardware architectures.```

Reviewer: Same again, made these consistent step-by-step instructions.

> From the **Software** tab in Fleet, select **Add software** > **Custom package**. Upload the installer. Select **Automatic install** or **Self-service** if those options apply to your environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> ### Post-install script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Add a post-install script
```

> The default install script that is populated in Fleet is sufficient, but, a post-install script is needed to set the site token and start the agent services. Below is an example post-install script that will set the token, start the service and check the status. Adjust the sleep time if needed. Also, populate the value of the `$FalconCid` variable with your Customer ID string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Customer ID** is used to assign hosts to your tenant and validate the CrowdStrike Falcon license using a script that calls the `falconctl` binary.
> Your Customer ID can be found on the Sensor download page.
In Fleet, define the following post-install script for the CrowdStrike Falcon installer, populating the value of the `$FalconCid` variable with your Customer ID string:
```

Reviewer: Again, I think this instruction should be consistent with the instructions for macOS and Windows, but I'm less confident with this one since your original paragraph for Linux had a different style than the others. What do you think?

```
#!/bin/bash

# Set your Customer ID here
FalconCid = "YOUR-CUSTOMER-ID-HERE

echo "Setting CrowdStrike Falcon Customer ID: $FalconCid"

# Set the Customer ID
sudo /opt/CrowdStrike/falconctl -s --cid="$FalconCid"

# Check if the command was successful
if [ $? -eq 0 ]; then
    echo "Customer ID set successfully!"
    
    # Verify the setting
    echo "Verifying Customer ID..."
    sudo /opt/CrowdStrike/falconctl -g --cid
else
    echo "Error: Failed to set Customer ID"
    exit 1
fi
```

Admins can verify the installation by running a command searching for the falcon sensor with the following command:

`sudo ps -e | grep falcon-sensor`

## Conclusion

Fleet offers admins a straight-forward approach to deploying the CrowdStrike Falcon application across your macOS, Linux and Windows hosts.

> Want to learn more or need additional information? Reach out directly to me or the [team at Fleet](https://fleetdm.com/contact) today!

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer: I think we can remove this CTA since this is a technical guide, not a marketing post.
